#fro interview 
3.6 years of experience as System Administrator performing both technical and a coordinator role inthe solution construct, troubleshooting, planning, implementation and managing complex Linux environment. As System administrator also assisting in high quality delivery to clients in response to specificrequests and maintain the responsibility to develop technical skills and absorb professional knowledge to quickly meet the business requirements.


PROFESSIONAL SYNOPSIS
 


Working as a System Administrator over 3.6 Years of experience on Redhat Linux Expertise on Maintaining Production Servers, Virtualization administration in Linux. Proven ability to learn quickly and become an expert in a variety of technologies Having Good Skills in producing quality work with limited resources. Good experience in Incident/Problem and Change management practices.


Day to day operational support and maintance for redhat, 6,7 &8 servers. 
 Working with Logical Volume Management (LVM). 
 Using HP ILO  and iDRAC for doing maintains of servers from remote location 
 Verify the backups by restoring it on test servers. 
 File System administration(creating and increasing file systems ). 
 Managing and troubleshooting of NFS and CIFS shares. 
 Managing DNS and adding DNS records . 
 Timely escalation of complex issues to ‘L3s’. 
 Applying OS patches to the linux servers. 
 Handling Linux Based Networking, Web server, Ftp server, Dns server, Samba Server, DHCP server, 
NFS server, Squid server, Http Server security, compiling, Install Mysql software & Installing open 
source Software’s.  
 Troubleshooting DNS, DHCP server & clients, Monitoring & Troubleshooting Domain related issues. 
 Apache tomcat Configuring and maintenance. 
 Deploying SSL certificates.  
 Worked on Cluster issues like fail over and fail back of service groups, creation of service group and add 
correspondance resources into the group, setting proper dependency, freezing of service groups during 
actiivty. Creating veritas volumes and filesystems and extend of vxfs filesystem. 
 Creating veritas volumes and filesystems and extend of vxfs filesystem. 
 Operating system patching on  RedHat two node cluster. 
 Upgrading and downgrading kernel and OS upgrading.  
 Knowledge in Database (Oracle and MySQL ) 
 Patches updating from Red Hat Subscription. 
 Trouble shooting issues related to Application Slowness, Out of Memory issue, Struck Threads.. 
 Responsible for company-wide systems and network security. 
 Remote Server Administration and Troubleshooting in Linux. 
 Fixing disk and memory related issues.                                   
 Provided root cause of issues by checking system logs, Application logs and worked with Redhat and HP to fix 
the issue. 
 Installed & upgraded Vmware tool in linux VMs. 
 Network File system Administration for Servers and Clients, Importing Exporting File systems, 
Troubleshooting NFS.  
 Patch Management using Redhat satellite server. Keep up-to-date patches. 
 Integration of APACHE server with JBoss application server using mod_jk, mod_cluster, mod_proxy plugins 
Checking the status of the resources. And bringing the resources to online offline. 
 Securing and managing network with firewall & iptables, creating rules to filter traffic. 
 Red Hat Pack; YUM client/ server configuration (through RPMs & ISO images). 
 Installation of Packages using rpm. 
 Worked on businees critical issues and resolved within SLA and provided proper RCA to customer. 
 Failover and Failback test as per the client requirement. 
 Work on Business Critical issues for P1 and P2 ticket. 
 Installation, troubleshooting and changing the Boot process in Linux Systems.  
 LVM configuration in SAN storage with Powerpath and Multipath. 
 Performing backups/restores using Sync Backup Open Source Tool. 
 Managed users, groups, and ftp accounts, permissions and security for clients. 
 Strong technical skills on AIX and LVM and troubleshooting. 
 Fixing mount issues, checking file system integrity, running fsck in maintenance mode on root vg 
logical volumes if any corrupted lv’s in root vg. 
 Configuring and Maintaining DHCP Server  and Clients
